## Cryptography and Network Security Lab ( PART A PROGRAMS )
This repository contains programs of Part A implemented in Cryptography and network security Lab in my 7th semester of SIT(VTU).


1. Perform encryption and decryption using mono-alphabetic cipher. The program should support the following :
    - Construct an input file named plaintext.txt (consisting of 1000 alphabets, without any space or special characters)
    - Encrypt the characters of plaintext.txt and store the corresponding ciphertext characters in ciphertext.txt
    - Compute the frequency of occurrence of each alphabet in both plaintext.txt and ciphertext.txt and tabulate the results


2. Write a program to perform the following using Playfair cipher technique
    - Encrypt a given message M with different keys {k1,k2,...,kn}. Print key and cipher text pair
    - Decrypt the cipher texts obtained in (i) to get back M


3. Write a program to perform the following using Hill cipher:
    - Encrypt a message M with a given key matrix of size 2X2 and 3X3
    - Decrypt the cipher text obtained in (i) by computing inverse of the respective key matrix.


4. Write a program to perform encryption and decryption using transposition technique with column permutation given as key.


5. Generate and print 48-bit keys for all sixteen rounds of DES algorithm, given a 64-bit initial key.


6. Given 64-bit output of (i-1)th round of DES, 48-bit ith round key Ki and E table, find the 48-bit input for S-box.


7. Given 48-bit input to S-box and permutation table P, find the 32-bit output Ri of ith round of DES algorithm.

8. Implement the following with respect to RC4:
    - Print first n key bytes generated by key generation process.
    - Illustrate encryption/decryption by accepting one byte data as input on the above generated keys.
